p8105_hw3_jkl2195
================
Jessie Li
2023-10-08

    ## ── Attaching core tidyverse packages ──────────────────────── tidyverse 2.0.0 ──
    ## ✔ dplyr     1.1.3     ✔ readr     2.1.4
    ## ✔ forcats   1.0.0     ✔ stringr   1.5.0
    ## ✔ ggplot2   3.4.3     ✔ tibble    3.2.1
    ## ✔ lubridate 1.9.2     ✔ tidyr     1.3.0
    ## ✔ purrr     1.0.2     
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()
    ## ℹ Use the conflicted package (<http://conflicted.r-lib.org/>) to force all conflicts to become errors

Loads the data

``` r
data("instacart")
instacart = 
  instacart |> 
  as_tibble()

data("brfss_smart2010")
brfss_smart2010 =
  brfss_smart2010 |>
  as_tibble()
```

The goal is to do some exploration of this dataset. To that end, write a
short description of the dataset, noting the size and structure of the
data, describing some key variables, and giving illstrative examples of
observations. Then, do or answer the following (commenting on the
results of each):

There are a total of 1384617 rows and 15 cols in this dataset. This
dataset contains characterization of Instacart orders. Some
characterization includes product name, aisles (ex: fresh vegetables,  
lunch meat), department(ex: produce, deli), if the product has been
ordered by the same customer before, the order which customer selects
each product, the days since last order, and its product and order id.
The data contains 39123 products, 131209, orders from 131209 distinct
users.

There are in total of 134 aisles with the top three ordered fresh
vegetables, fresh fruits, packaged vegetables fruits, 150609, 150473,
78493.

This is a plot that shows the number of items ordered in each aisle,
limiting this to aisles with more than 10000 items ordered.

``` r
instacart |>
  count(aisle) |>
  filter(n > 10000) |>
  mutate(aisle = fct_reorder(aisle, n)) |>
  ggplot(aes(x = aisle, y = n)) +
  geom_point() + 
  labs(title = "Number of items ordered in each aisle") +
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 60, hjust = 1))
```

![](p8105_hw3_jkl2195_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png)<!-- -->

This is a table showing the three most popular items in each of the
aisles “baking ingredients”, “dog food care”, and “packaged vegetables
fruits” with the number of times each item is ordered

``` r
instacart |>
  filter(aisle %in% c("baking ingredients", "dog food care", "packaged vegetables fruits")) |>
  group_by(aisle) |>
  count(product_name) |>
  mutate(
    rank = min_rank(desc(n))
  ) |>
  filter(rank < 4) |>
  arrange(desc(n))
```

    ## # A tibble: 9 × 4
    ## # Groups:   aisle [3]
    ##   aisle                      product_name                                n  rank
    ##   <chr>                      <chr>                                   <int> <int>
    ## 1 packaged vegetables fruits Organic Baby Spinach                     9784     1
    ## 2 packaged vegetables fruits Organic Raspberries                      5546     2
    ## 3 packaged vegetables fruits Organic Blueberries                      4966     3
    ## 4 baking ingredients         Light Brown Sugar                         499     1
    ## 5 baking ingredients         Pure Baking Soda                          387     2
    ## 6 baking ingredients         Cane Sugar                                336     3
    ## 7 dog food care              Snack Sticks Chicken & Rice Recipe Dog…    30     1
    ## 8 dog food care              Organix Chicken & Brown Rice Recipe        28     2
    ## 9 dog food care              Small Dog Biscuits                         26     3

This is a table showing the mean hour of the day at which Pink Lady
Apples and Coffee Ice Cream are ordered on each day of the week

``` r
instacart |>
  filter(product_name %in% c("Pink Lady Apples", "Coffee Ice Cream"))|>
  group_by(product_name, order_dow) |>
  count(order_hour_of_day) |>
  summarize(
    mean = round(mean(n),2)
  ) |>
  pivot_wider(
    names_from = order_dow,
    values_from = mean
  )
```

    ## `summarise()` has grouped output by 'product_name'. You can override using the
    ## `.groups` argument.

    ## # A tibble: 2 × 8
    ## # Groups:   product_name [2]
    ##   product_name       `0`   `1`   `2`   `3`   `4`   `5`   `6`
    ##   <chr>            <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <dbl>
    ## 1 Coffee Ice Cream  2.82  1.73  1.75  1.83  2.09  1.36  2.4 
    ## 2 Pink Lady Apples  2.27  3.57  2.76  2.46  2.07  3     1.45

Clean up data by clean up variable names, focus on the “Overall Health”
topic, removing data entries with reponses as “Very good”, and convert
responses as a factor taking levels ordered from “Poor” to “Excellent”.

``` r
brfss_smart2010 = brfss_smart2010 |>
  janitor::clean_names("snake") |>
  filter(topic %in% c("Overall Health")) |>
  rename(
    location_abbr = locationabbr,
    location_desc = locationdesc
  ) |>
  filter(!response %in% c("Very good")) |>
  mutate(
    response = factor(response, levels = c("Poor", "Fair", "Good", "Excellent"))
  )
```

In 2002, which states were observed at 7 or more locations? What about
in 2010?

``` r
brfss_2002_multiloc_state = brfss_smart2010 |>
  filter(year == 2002) |>
  group_by(location_abbr) |>
  distinct(geo_location) |>
  summarize(num_of_locations = n()) |>
  filter(num_of_locations >= 7) |>
  mutate(
    location_full = state.name[match(location_abbr, state.abb)]
  )|>
  pull(location_full)

brfss_2010_multiloc_state = brfss_smart2010 |>
  filter(year == 2010) |>
  group_by(location_abbr) |>
  distinct(geo_location) |>
  summarize(num_of_locations = n()) |>
  filter(num_of_locations >= 7) |>
  mutate(
    location_full = state.name[match(location_abbr, state.abb)]
  )|>
  pull(location_full)
```

In 2002, Connecticut, Florida, Massachusetts, North Carolina, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania (6 total) were observed at 7 or more locations. And
in 2010, California, Colorado, Florida, Massachusetts, Maryland, North
Carolina, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South
Carolina, Texas, Washington (14 total) were observed at 7 or more
locations

Construct a dataset that is limited to Excellent responses, and
contains, year, state, and a variable that averages the data_value
across locations within a state. Make a “spaghetti” plot of this average
value over time within a state (that is, make a plot showing a line for
each state across years – the geom_line geometry and group aesthetic
will help). Make a two-panel plot showing, for the years 2006, and 2010,
distribution of data_value for responses (“Poor” to “Excellent”) among
locations in NY State.
